Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a horror,
drama film from 2020, titled The Invisible Man.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Cecilia wakes up in the middle of the night.
She gets out of bed, trying not to wake her
husband Adrian, then she reaches under
the bed for the drug she's hidden there.
As she's leaving the bedroom, he moves a little
in his sleep and completely startles her.
Cecilia moves silently and deliberately to
the dressing room, where she gets a duffle
bag full of clothes and adds the medicine inside
as well. Next, she points the hallway camera to
her sleeping husband and checks if it's working,
so that she can keep an eye on him. She walks
into a room that looks like a laboratory
and disables the house cameras and alarm.
Any noise she makes terrifies her and she checks
the camera if he's awake. She gets dressed quickly
and quietly leaves the house through the garage.
Zeuss the dog follows her out and scares her
at first. She takes his electric collar off,
when suddenly, the dog activates the car alarm
and Cecilia runs toward the fence. The light
in the bedroom turn on, as she climbs over.
She runs through the woods and gets to a road,
waiting for her sister Emily to pick her up.
More than a moment passes and she looks
terrified. Finally, her sister arrives and
Cecilia gets in the car. All of a sudden,
her husband appears behind her, screaming
after her and breaking the window. They drive
away, but he finds her diazepam on the ground.
Two weeks later, Cecilia is at a friend's
house, James. She's still afraid to go outside,
but he convinces her to go out to the
mailbox. When she goes to open it,
a man jogging scares her and she runs back inside.
The next day, her friend is doing some home reno
and Cecilia is covering her computer camera, when
suddenly the doorbell rings. Emily is at the door.
Cecilia is upset that she's there, thinking that
her husband might have followed her there. But,
her sister has some news. She shows her an article
on her phone, saying her husband is dead. Cecilia
doesn't understand how. She tells james and Emily
about the way he would control her, from the way
she looked to the way she spoke and thought. His
abuse didn't just stop with physical violence.
The next day, Cecilia is able to walk out of
the house more easily. She gets the letters by
herself and is congratulated by her friend and his
daughter, Sydney for her efforts. James finds one
of the letters is addressed to her. Later, Cecilia
and Emily are in a law office. Adrian's brother,
who's also a lawyer, reads the final wishes of the
deceased, who has left Cecilia 5 million dollars,
under the condition that she's never brought up
on criminal charges or declared mentally unstable.
That night, she surprises Sydney and James with
a present, thanking them for taking good care of
her. James gets a giant ladder and Sydney a bank
account with enough money to go to fashion school.
They celebrate and then Cecilia
goes to her room. She keeps having
the feeling that someone is watching her.
The next morning, James leaves for work and
asks Cecilia to wake Sydney up. She does just
that, while leaving the stove on. The breakfast
catches fire and the girl puts it out with a fire
extinguisher. Later that day, Cecilia is alone
at the house, but she senses something strange
and goes to investigate. She looks through the
entire house and finds nothing, when suddenly
she hears the front door of the house open.
Cecilia checks the entrance. There is no one
there, but she still feels strange. Suddenly
a second breath can be seen next to her. The same
night, Cecilia and Sydney are sleeping in Sydney's
room. Suddenly something pulls their covers off
and starts playing with the light in the room,
waking Cecilia. She thinks she sees someone
in the room briefly, but realizes it's just
Sydney's manikin. Then she goes to pick up the
covers from the floor and thinks that there is
someone sitting in the chair next to her, so
she throws the covers at it. There's no one.
She pulls on the covers, but they don't move.
When she looks at them, it's as if someone is
standing on them. Cecilia calls for James, waking
Sydney in the process and he rushes into the room.
Since neither him nor his daughter see
anybody, he calms her down a little bit,
saying not to let the memory of Adrian haunt her.
Cecilia has a job interview. The interviewer
flirts with her as they sit down, but when he
sees that she's nervous asks to see her work.
Cecilia opens the bag and her work isn't there.
She gets really upset and passes out cold. James
is sitting with her in the hospital as the doctor
tells her to basically keep it easy until her lab
results are done. Cecilia is taking a shower
and hears the phone ring. She picks up and it's
her doctor telling her that the reason for her
fainting is high levels of diazepam in her system.
Cecilia sees a bottle of diazepam on the bathroom
sink. It has a bloody finger print on it. Later,
Cecilia has taken James with her to see
Adrian's brother. She tells them about the
bottle of diazepam, saying it was put there by
Adrian, but the brother dismisses her. Then she
says that she doesn't believe he's dead, saying
that he's figured out a way to be invisible and
that she's sure his brother knows about it. James
is shocked and Adrian's brother is unimpressed.
He says that his brother tortured him by getting
inside his head too. He shows her a picture of
Adrian's dead body and tells her that he
was also relieved when his brother died.
Cecilia goes to see Emily and they have an awkward
conversation in which her sister tells her that
she read her awful email about how she feels about
her. Cecilia tells her that she didn't send the
email, but that Adrian did. Emily doesn't believe
her and tells her to get help. That night Cecilia
checks the sent items on her email and finds
the one sent to Emily. Sydney walks in to find
her crying on the floor. After a few comforting
words, they decide to go out. Sydney stands up
and something hits her. She immediately calls
for her dad, thinking Cecilia did that to her.
As much as she tries she can't convince the two
of them that it wasn't her that hit the girl,
so they leave her alone in the house. Cecilia
knows that Adrian is somehow there and starts
calling for him. She grabs a bag of coffee and
spreads it all over the floor in one of the rooms,
sitting herself down on the opposite end to the
door. Firmly believing that Adrian is there she
talks to him, begging to be left alone. She gets
the idea to call his phone and when it rings,
she can hear it in the celling. Celia climbs in
the celling and starts looking for him, but sees
no one. She calls the phone again and goes in
it's direction, where she finds Adrian's keys,
a knife and her design work. There's a noise
behind her, so she grabs a paint and throws it at
the opening of the celling, suddenly showing the
contours of a man. She gets down from the celling
and looks for him, when she hears the water
running in the kitchen. The sink is full of paint.
An invisible hand grabs and lifts her abruptly.
It throws her around the house, they fight,
it chases after her and tries to strangle her,
but she fights it off and runs out of the house.
Cecilia manages to get an Uber and asks him to
take her to the house where she lived with Adrian.
They get to the house and she asks the Uber to
wait. Cecilia walks inside and is joined by Zeuss.
The dog follows her to the basement laboratory,
where she heads straight to one of the gadgets.
She tries to figure out what it is by looking
at a tablet strapped to the wall and succeeds
in deactivating the gadget, slowly revealing an
invisibility suit. Cecilia is taking the suit
of the manikin, when the dog barks and runs
toward something, alerting her that there's
someone else in the house. Cecilia goes to
hide in the dressing room in the bedroom,
but is followed by the invisible man. He opens the
door, but ironically doesn't see her immediately.
She runs away as the dog barks
at him. While in the Uber,
she calls Emily asking to meet her that night.
Cecilia waits for her sister in a restaurant,
nervously looking at the empty chair. When Emily
arrives, she tells her about what she found in
Adrian's house, that would prove that he's still
alive. Suddenly a knife is floating mid air,
killing Emily. In the next moment it's in
Cecilia's hand. A patron in the restaurant
screams and everyone freaks out, moving away from
her. Cecilia is pinned down and arrested. She's
taken to an asylum, screaming that she didn't
do it. Staring at the empty corners of the room,
she says that Adrian killed her
sister and that she knows he's there.
She's sedated and left alone. Footsteps are heard
heading toward her and the words "surprise".
James and another detective are interrogating
Cecilia. She says she has proof about Adrian,
but that she can't tell them what it is because
he's in the room and they can't see him.
The other detective leaves and she asks James
if he believes her. She says she feels guilty,
but James feels guilty in his own way too. Later,
Cecilia is talking to a doctor who tells her that
she's pregnant and that it happened sometime in
the last month. The next day, Adrian's brother
comes to see her in the asylum. He's there
to tell her that since she's been brought
up on criminal charges and potentially ruled
mentally incompetent, she's lost the right to
Adrian's money. She belittles him, comparing him
to his narcissist sociopath brother. He tells her
that she has two options, to sign the document and
forfeit the money, or to have the baby and go back
to Adrian. He offers her a new life with Adrian
in one phone call. She refuses and steals one
of his pens when he isn't looking. He tells her
he'll come back in 3 days for her final decision.
Later that night, after the orderly checks
Cecilia's room thoroughly and leaves, she goes in
the shower. She takes the pen and as she starts to
cut into her veins says "you won't get the baby".
Suddenly the invisible man grabs her hand and
she stabs him with the pen, repeatedly. The
security guard walks in, but sees the damaged
suit. He goes to shock the invisible man,
but the he turns the stun gun back on the guard.
Cecilia runs but is quickly stopped by two guards.
They're taking her back to her room and
the man appears again, killing them.
More keep coming and suffer the same fate, one
by one, completely unaware of what's happening
to them. After killing the last guard on that
floor, the man drops the gun. Cecilia runs after
him and takes it. She chases him to the stairwell
and shoots after him. They both leave the facility
and go outside in the pouring rain. Cecilia is
looking for him, with the gun on hand. She hears
a noise and goes after it, while security guards
are after her too. Close to her is an open trunk,
so she approaches it, assuming he's hiding there.
He grabs her suddenly and starts strangling her,
telling her that if she doesn't comply he'll
hurt the ones she loves, like Sydney. Cecilia
goes after him again, but when she gets outside
of the fence, the invisible man speeds toward her
with his car while she shoots at him, causing
another car to crash. Cecilia steals that car
and goes after him again, relentlessly. While
driving she calls James and tells him to go back
to the house and protect Sydney. The invisible
man arrives at the house and goes into her room.
She wakes up and gets the pepper spray out of her
bag. Since she can hear him moving, she sprays him
and he falls over. She runs away screaming, but
the man grabs her. At that moment James arrives
at the house so the man just starts attacking him
instead. Sydney begs him to stop beating up her
dad, when suddenly, Cecilia arrives and blasts him
with a fire extinguisher, then shoots him dead.
She goes over to the body and takes off the mask
, only to reveal that it was Adrian's brother.
A tactical police unit is seen going through
Adrian's house as cries for help are heard
from inside. The police tear down a wall in
the basement and find Adrian tied up. Later,
James tells Cecilia how he was found, but she
doesn't believe that he was his brother's victim.
James tries to convince her, but she
believes that Adrian set his brother up,
making her feel like she's the crazy one.
That night, she goes back to the house. He's
waiting for her, pleased to see her. She's not
as pleased to see him though. They sit down for
dinner and he's trying to be vulnerable with her,
apologizes to her, saying his learned his lesson.
She wants him to admit to everything that he
did, but he keeps swearing that his brother was
controlling him. Cecilia persists in asking for
his admission and meanwhile James is outside the
house, listening to every word the two are saying.
As she's crying, Adrian comes over to comfort her,
but falls back to his controlling ways again.
Cecilia goes to the bathroom to clean herself
up and he's seen waiting for her at the
table. After she's been gone for a while,
he becomes restless and suddenly kills himself.
After a moment, Cecilia comes back and immediately
calls the emergency services. She pulls away
in the blind spot of the security camera,
sits down and watches him die. James comes
running toward the house after he heard
what's happened and finds Cecilia leaving.
She tells him that Adrian had killed himself,
but James sees the suit in a duffle bag she's
holding and asks if she planned it all along.
Cecilia doesn't answer the question directly. She
walks out of the house, leaving everything behind.